[singing in Japanese]
[narrator] The Nautilus docked
by remote island for supplies,
but encountered
unexpected guests.
Little did they know
that a Neo-Atlantean supply ship
was also moored at the island.
Marie and Sanson
were chased by soldiers
until they reached camp.
A soldier tried to shoot Nadia
but was killed at
the last minute by Captain Nemo.
The adventure continues.
[sonar] Sir, I've detected
an unidentified ship
at two o'clock.
[engineer]
We've caught them at last.
Yes, it has to be the Garfish.
Right.
There's no other ship
in all the world besides ours
that can
operate at these depths.
They may be
able to dive like us,
but that is where
the comparisons end.
Shall we pursue them, Captain?
Of course.
Alter bearing to 2:00.
-And full speed ahead.
-Aye, aye, Captain.
All hands report
to level two battle positions.
All hands to level
two battle positions.
I repeat, all hands
to level two battle positions.
All non-combatants must report
to block three shelters.
Good. Another chance to kill.
But Nadia, it's this times
they might be
going after Gargoyle
and his assassins.
What's the difference?
He's a murderer, too.
Despicable.
Yes, but...
[Nadia] There's no excuse.
He murdered
that man in cold blood.
I don't care
what his reasons were!
[Jean] But that soldier had
his rifle pointed right at you.
He'd have killed you
if the captain didn't act.
I would rather have died myself
than witness his butchery.
That doesn't make sense, Nadia!
-[King purrs]
-Marie!
What's wrong with her, Doctor?
[Sanson]
They told me Marie collapsed.
Marie.
Doctor,
Marie, is she--is she
going to be all right?
Hmm.
Tell me what
her condition is now!
It is a rare tropical fever.
-A tropical fever?
I don't care what the name
of the disease is, doctor.
She will recover, right?
-Well, that is hard to say.
-What?
You mean, she--
why don't you give us some of
your advanced miracle medicine
and make her well again?
I said it is very rare,
didn't I?
We don't have the antidote.
But you must have--you--
Marie, she--you have to--
-listen, Hanson...
-[Hanson] Hmm?
You and your blessed
science must be able
to do something
for her, can't you?
But I know
nothing about medicine.
Ugh, great!
All of this science
and it's of no use!
-[Marie gasping]
-What's the matter, Marie?
Can you hear me, my dear?
Can you?
[sighs]
[crying] Can somebody do
something for her
for heaven's sake, please?
[Doctor] Perhaps...
Perhaps?
-What is it?
-[sighs]
Well, maybe Captain
Nemo can help her.
He is a specialist in Marine
Biology and tropical diseases.
Then he can
save Marie from this.
Huh?
Nadia!
[Nadia panting]
-Huh?
-What is it?
Captain Nemo, Marie, she's
contracted a tropical fever.
The doctor told us
you could help her, Captain.
You've got to do
whatever you can.
You've got to save
her from this, sir.
Are you listening
to me, Captain?
Save Marie!
[Electra] Nadia,
the only antidote
to Marie's fever
is located at the bottom
of Reef 64,
but we are 6,000 meters
from overtaking the Garfish.
We have been matching
its course for 10 days
straight already.
We simply can't afford
to let it get away this time.
That's your excuse?
Capturing the Garfish
must be our primary goal.
And you'll sacrifice
a small child to that goal?
You'll let her die just so you
can destroy another submarine?
The crew of the Garfish
will be killed once
you achieve your goal
and you are willing to commit
more acts of murder?
-Answer me!
-Nadia, you must calm down.
Hmm?
-Nadia?
-[Captain Nemo] Hmm?
[Electra] Nadia?
Someone get the doctor.
I just heard
that they've fallen ill!
-Yes, it's true.
Do they know
what the sickness is?
-Hmm.
[Doctor] Nadia has contracted
the same fever.
Is this fever serious, Doctor?
Yes, fraulein.
They'll both be
dead in two days.
[all] They can't.
I do not have
the right medicine.
Without it, there's very
little I can do.
[Grandis] I see.
I will speak to the captain
about getting what you need.
-[Sanson] Wait a moment, ma'am.
-[Grandis] Ugh!
-Let me speak to him.
-And why is that?
Because I have
a question for him.
I want to know how long
these girls will have to lay
here suffering
before he can be bothered
to take any interest in
their plight.
No.
Is it beneath him to offer
even one word of kindness?
Ugh!
What is he?
How can a man be so heartless?
-She what? Nadia as well?
-Yes.
We believe she caught
it from Marie, sir.
I see.
With that fever,
they only have 48 hours to live.
[sonar] We're within
3,000 meters of the Garfish.
We'll be within
firing range in two minutes.
[Nadia] You'll let her die
just so you can
destroy another submarine?
[navigator] We can take engines
to full speed without danger.
[Electra] All hands are
at full battle readiness, sir.
We're changing course. Proceed
at full speed to Reef 64.
-Huh?-
Hmm?
Sir, we can't do that.
If you do this, we will
lose the Garfish.
We've sacrifice too
much for this chance.
We've dedicated
everything to overthrowing
Gargoyle and his followers.
You're willing to throw that
all away for two little girls?
I made a vow to
you 13 years ago,
made on the graves of my family.
Shall I repeat my orders?
I heard them clearly.
Change course 180 degrees,
full speed to Reef 64.
Affecting course change.
Bearing fixed at 125,
plotting course for Reef 64.
Garfish of 5,000
meters and counting.
[Nemo] First Officer?
Sir.
-[Nemo] Assume the command.
-Aye.
Well, we're sure to catch up
with the Garfish
some other time.
That's assuming
you remember how to do your job.
Oh, right.
We might be in trouble then.
If you know what I mean.
[laughs]
[sigh]
[Jean] We're going to Reef 64?
You mean Nadia and Marie
are going to be saved?
Yes, it will take about a day to
get there,
but that ought be enough time.
Magnifique!
-We won!-
We won!
[chuckles] I'm going to go see
Ms. Electra right now.
[chuckles]
Hey, wait.
I wouldn't do that. Jean!
[King purrs]
Oh, me and my big mouth,
you know?
[King purrs]
[engineer]
I agree, he has changed.
He's not the Captain Nemo
we've come to know.
I was as surprised as anyone was
when he ordered us to
change course
and give up our
pursuit of the Garfish.
Even so, I think he was correct
in making his decision.
If we were to let
those children die just
so we could achieve
our chief objective,
we would be no better than
Gargoyle and his Neo-Atlanteans.
You know, I want to avenge
my son and grandchild,
but I won't let that happen
at the expense of innocent
children.
I trust Captain Nemo
with my entire being, Electra.
The only reason any
of us is still alive
is because
he was there to rescue us.
[Jean] I wonder what kind of man
Captain Nemo really is.
[Sanson] That's pretty
bloody obvious.
-[Jean] Hmm?
-He's a scoundrel.
[Jean] Do you think so?
Haven't you seen that
old man pursuing
Miss Grandis like
he's some teenager?
I think you have that
backwards, Sanson.
Shut it!
So, Jean, promise me,
when you grow up,
don't become a creepy old man
like Captain Nemo.
Grow up to be a gentleman just
like your friend Sanson,
all right, son?
You might want to
reconsider that option.
Shut it!
See, Captain Nemo,
he doesn't have what it takes.
But he shot a man though.
That means nothing.
There is a war going on.
Even a coward can kill
during wartime, Jean.
That's not manhood.
Besides, from what I've seen,
the captain is more than willing
to let his crew kill and die
while he does nothing.
You're wrong, Sanson.
I saw what he did myself.
Jean.
Huh?
You're not accustomed
to seeing people die, are you?
When I was growing up,
I saw many people die
during wartime and
widespread epidemics.
I even saw my parents die.
Death is far from rare
in the times we live in.
And the ability to cause death
is no sign of a great man.
[navigator] Approaching
Point SP-22, RP-40.
Reef 64 is dead ahead.
Power down
engines at reef opening.
-Prepare the diving sphere.
-[helmsman] Aye, aye.
♪ The Secret Blue Water
-[Jean] Captain Nemo, sir.
-Hmm?
We volunteer to go
on the mission with you.
You do, do you?
It will be quite dangerous.
We know, sir.
We don't have time to argue.
Each of you may take one
of the diving suits over there.
When you are ready,
we will be on our way.
[all] Aye!
Pressure valve is viable.
Air supply, sufficient.
All instruments are responding.
The diving sphere will remain
at the cabin opening.
You will then act as
the message relay
for the exploration team,
-understood?
-[sonar] Aye!
[Electra] Captain, we are ready.
You may disembark at any time.
-Right. Are you ready now, men?
-Uh-hmm.
[gasps]
What's going on there? Come on.
-Ta-da!
[chuckles]
King wants to go
on the mission too.
Uh, how did you...
Hanson and I thought about
doing it
ever since we saw
the diving gear.
Then we put it together
which is a sure sign of...
-genius!
-Genius!
How can you two play around
like this
when our friends'
lives are stake?
-[both] Sorry.
-[Nemo] Gentlemen.
-[all] Huh?
-We have little time.
None of you
are experienced deep-sea divers.
I must teach
you how to communicate.
If we are within five meters
of each other,
we can talk through wireless
speakers in our helmets.
Oh.
We'd have given King
one if we'd known.
What a brilliant invention!
However, outside of that range,
the wireless system becomes
distorted and unreliable,
so you must then
implement this light.
I assume you know
how to signal with Morse code.
-[both] Aye!
-Uh, yes?
Good. Then you must know
one last thing before we go.
Reef 64 is relatively safe
but not absolutely so.
Each of us must
watch after himself.
And we will have
no time for rescues.
-[all] Aye!
-All right.
Let's head to the
decompression chamber.
[all] Aye!
-[beeps]
-[gasps]
Yes. This is the bridge. Go on.
[Nemo] First officer, it is I.
We are in
the decompression chamber.
All systems are go.
Commence operation.
[Electra over comms]
Aye aye, Captain.
Commencing operation.
[Sanson] Uh, this is supposed
to happen, right?
[King whimpers]
There's no need to panic, okay?
Just breathe normally.
[King whimpers]
Water intake complete.
Pressure is equalized.
It's time to
move out, gentlemen.
[machine whirs]
[King purrs]
[Jean] Look how deep it is.
I wonder how far down it goes.
[Nemo] Jean,
we haven't time. Hurry.
Oh. Of course, sir.
-Get a move on there, Jean.
-I'm sorry.
[machine whirs]
[Electra over comms] The diving
sphere has been released.
Distance to bottom
of reef is 30 meters.
[Jean] I've never seen
fish like this before.
Modern man has never seen them.
The outside world has
considered them extinct
for millions of years.
Huh?
[Nemo]
But they found their own home
within the crevices and
currents of this remote reef,
far from man's foolishness.
This is truly a lost world, just
like in the adventure books.
You know, this
reef would be a dream
come true for an
oceanic paleontologist.
[gasps] What's this?
They call
it the snow of the deep.
It's composed of
dead microorganisms.
[Jean] That's incredible!
[Hanson] They emit light,
even after death.
[Sanson] There are more things
in heaven and Earth
than I dreamt of
in our philosophy.
Poor Nadia.
She would love
to have seen this.
-We must hurry.
-[Jean] Aye!
[sonar over radio]
This is diving sphere one.
The captain's party
has entered the main cavern.
Roger.
-Please monitor their progress.
-[sonar over radio] Aye.
This seaweed has grown
as tall and thick as
trees in a forest.
Why did you bring
that rifle with you, Sanson?
Well, you never can tell
when you might just
run into something
that needs to be shot, Hanson.
I think you just feel inadequate
without a gun in your hand.
[Electra thinking] Their oxygen
will only last one more hour.
I hope they don't
run into trouble...
Oh, it goes further?
Is there no bottom to this reef?
If there is, it's over
a thousand meters down.
Oh.
We're not going down
there, are we, sir?
[Nemo] No. Our destination
is through that opening there.
Oh, thank God. What luck.
How are we supposed
to get over there?
Like this, Jean.
-[Jean] Clever!
-[Hanson] Amazing!
[Sanson] But how do
we get back again?
[Nemo] Do you see those pins
on the shoulders of your suits?
[all] Huh?
Pulling them releases
an air balloon to pull you up.
Oh, I wondered
what those were for.
We'd have given King
one if we'd known.
Now, follow me.
[all] This is great!
-Are you all right?
-Uh-hmm.
Very good.
Now let's hurry.
We have no time.
[Jean] My word!
Is this what we came for, sir?
-Yes. This is the herb.
-Good!
So the girls are as good
as cured, right?
Thank you!
-[Hanson] All right!
-[Sanson] All right!
This is enough.
Our mission has
been a success, men.
-Let's return to the ship.
-[all] Aye aye!
-Hmm?
-What is it, boy?
Do you want to go first?
[King purrs]
Very well.
Look out!
[King purrs]
[screams]
That's big.
And it's old.
It's a dinicthys from
the Devonian era.
It may have taken us by surprise
but I don't care how
big and old it is,
-a fish is still a fish!
-It won't work.
But how do we know if we
haven't tried?
Fish sticks, anyone?
-[gunshot]
-[clangs]
-Huh?
-[gunshots]
[clangs]
A dinicthys skin is as hard
as the world's strongest armor.
That spear gun would not
even put a scratch on it.
-Uh...
-[Hanson] Captain Nemo...
what do we do?
We can't let it trap us here.
I've got it.
Everyone put your lights out.
It's attracted to us because
it equates light with food.
[all] Huh?
[sonar] Where are they?
Oh, no. I hope nothing's wrong.
[Nemo] Many of the fish
at this depth are phototaxic.
They instinctively
head for any light source.
[Sanson] I see.
So that's why the dinicthys--
the fish left the cave
once the lights were out.
Very interesting.
We are going to use
that instinct
and this little item against it.
But what is that?
Pressure switch.
If we drop this into the abyss,
the change in pressure
will activate the charge
and then
the lights will come on.
Uh...
[both] Which will draw the
dinicthys away from the cave!
[Nemo] That is far too narrow
for a grown man.
-Jean.
-Yes, sir?
This mission is
terribly dangerous,
but only you and King have
any hope of carrying it out.
-Will you do it?
-Yes.
With honor, sir.
Brave boy. Thank you.
[dramatic music playing]
Please hurry back, Captain,
before it's too late.
This is very bad.
We have only five minutes
worth of oxygen left.
All right, Jean. It's up to you.
[pants]
It's hard to breathe.
We must be low on oxygen.
It's even further.
Let's keep moving, King.
[King purrs]
All right.
Now, it is tied to the rock.
That should do it.
Hmm.
The cable is a bit too long
but I have
nothing to cut it with it.
We're ready.
Operation go!
[grunts]
-King!
-[King purrs]
[both] Jean!
[gunshot]
I didn't even cut it!
-It's much too strong!
-[gunshot]
[both] Huh?
This better work!
[sighs]
We made it.
Ha, we got through all
that trouble
and they lock us up
in this place.
If we didn't
decompress properly,
our bodies would cramp
up and strangle us.
Well, Hanson, I guess
we owe our lives to
the boy this time.
Thank you for
that, Jean and King.
Oh, no.
You are the ones who saved us
today, and we thank you.
No.
Captain Nemo is the
person who saved you.
He stepped in there
when my efforts had failed.
Captain Nemo?
They're out of danger.
The fever has dropped rapidly.
Well, that's a relief.
Those girls had me
pretty worried there.
[all] Is
everyone feeling better?
Keep your voices down!
This is a sick bay!
Oh, we're just excited.
-Feel better, Marie?
-Uh-hmm.
Nadia, are you well enough
to sit up like this?
Yes. Of course.
You're so sweet.
-You really mean it?
-Uh-hmm.
You should know that
Captain Nemo risked his life
to get your medicine.
-[gasps]
-He's not the beast
you thought he was.
Huh? You mean...
It's true.
And Jean here risked his life
to save us all.
He is one brave nipper.
I promise I won't let
this go to my head.
[Sanson] Every hero
deserves a little worship, Jean.
-[laughter]
-Then thank you, Captain.
[Electra] Captain Nemo,
I've returned the ship's
course to SB-64.
Our speed is
set at one-third, sir.
-Uh-hmm.
-That is all.
First officer...
I'm sorry.
Oh.
Well, I have steadfast faith
in your decisions, Captain.
I know.
[dramatic music playing]
[singing in Japanese]